Hello everyone and welcome to part three of the Twitter project with sparks streaming.
So now we're going to finish off our project by setting up a Jupiter note book of spark that will connect
to the socket connection created by that tweet read the PI file were created in the previous lecture.
I remember inside the PI file you're gonna have to fill in your credentials for everything to work OK.
Now overall for this lecture I really highly recommend that you actually avoid typing out the instructions
on your own and instead use the provided notebook and the provided notebook is under the sparks streaming
folder it's called Introduction to spark streaming.
Now there are many places where a simple typo can mess everything up.
Or if you run a cell in the wrong order everything can get messed up.
And unfortunately the nature of sequel contex and the sockets almost always require you to restart your
virtual box to get going again.
So that's why I really recommend you just download the notes and follow along the notes and run the
cells as I run them.
In fact I encourage this so much that I won't be personally typing it out for the lecture.
I'm going to explain line by line.
What's already provided for you in the notebooks that come with the Course now pending on how many times
you actually run through this exercise.
The port you assign in tweet read that PI may already be in use.
Meaning if you run through this lecture everything's working and then you you know do control c stop
and you want to run it again.
Sometimes that tweet read that PI may read something like you're already in use.
So I'm gonna go over how to change that port.
It's actually really simple.
You just essentially just changed the integer number for the port to something else but don't go over
that just in case you find yourself with that particular problem of poor already in use.
OK now one quick final note.
In order to use one of the visualization libraries we actually need to install one more library called
panderers.
So what I want you to do is in that virtual box at your terminal just type Pipp 3 install panels just
like we installed Seaborn in that post-Labor earlier.
And then once you install that at the terminal I want you to restart your virtual box boot to machine
before falling along with this lecture.
So right now if you want Pozza you go to your terminal Do pit 3 install panderers and then once that's
ready to go restart your virtual box of Muta machine and then you're ready to fall off.
This particular lecture OK.
So here are the overall steps we're going to take.
We're going to quickly review the tweet read the py file and it will actually change the port on it.
Just to review how you can change the port.
In case you get an error of port already news then you're going to open up the provided notebook file
and you're going to scroll all the way down to the intersection you're not going to run all the cells
in it and then we'll run the PI file and the cells in the correct order as we explain what's happening.
Line by line and in that notebook there's two instances where it says you can run tweet read that pi.
It actually doesn't really matter when you actually run tweet read that pie.
What matters is that you are running it by the time you start your spark stream in S..
And we'll talk about that later on.
And as I mentioned there are many steps that must be done in the exact order for this entire process
to work.
And if you do even a single step out of order you're going to essentially need to restart your virtual
box and start all over again which is why I highly recommend that you take your time with this.
Just watch the video and use the provided notes OK.
So using the provided tweet read that pi an introduction is streaming.
It's going to save you a lot of time and frustration even of myself when I was trying to type this manually.
I would make a simple typo or accidently run a cell in the wrong order a miss a parentheses.
And I kept messing up so really using the provided files is going to save you a ton of time a ton of
frustration and it's going to build enough understanding where you can tackle your own projects when
you want.
OK let's get started.
I'm going to go to my virtual box and remember I just did a fresh restart of this virtual box that's
ready to go.
All right.
Here I am at my virtual box remember I just restarted my virtual box.
And if you kind of skipped the slides for this particular lecture please go back and read them all you
had to actually install Pancho's but hopefully you saw the slides and that those instructions and now
we're going to do is we're going to open up two terminals to come over here and then search your computer
for terminal.
Already have it here.
And then we're going to open one more up.
So one of these will be running our tweet read that PI file and the other one will be running our Jupiter
notebook file.
OK.
So first I want to review that tweet read that PI file explain a little bit more about what it's doing
and then show you how you can change the port in case you ever get an error that says port already in
use.
So my file I saved the under Downloads because we edit it in the Jupiter note book and then I said Save
As we read that pie.
So it's under Downloads for me.
I'm going to double click it.
OK.
And at the bottom the tweet read that pile once you have it open.
You'll notice that this is where we have our port number assigned and our host number assigned.
And then it also says listening on port.
That's just a stream.
But in case you ever run this if you run this more than one time you may start getting air that says
port already in use if you ever get that.
It's no big deal.
All you have to do is change this port number to something else that you know is not in use and you
can just go down one like 1998 and then to make it clear you can always just change a string to no listening
on port.
9 9 9 8 so I'm going to do that and I don't actually need to do it because it just that a restart but
just in case I wanted to walk through that and then just do control us to save or command us and you're
ready to go.
So we're going to close that.
And then in one of these terminals we're going to come back here and get that file ready to go.
So we'll say CD into downloads and then if I do ls it lists my files and I had to read that pie.
So I will say Python 3 then tab autocomplete.
And I'm not going to hit enter yet.
I'm going to have that ready to go and it will tell you later on when to actually run this file and
then add my other terminal.
I'm going to start a Jupiter notebook
so that will open up and here in my up a viewer I've downloaded the introduction to spark streaming
notebook.
You can just go to it in your unzipped file of notes it's under the sparks streaming folder.
Click on that and open that up.
Again I highly recommend that you instead of typing along just actually use this particular file.
So once you have this open scroll down past the actual introduction example that we went through you're
not going to run any of those cells so keep scrolling down until you get to the Twitter example.
And now this is what we're actually going to be using.
So I'm going to zoom in here just a little bit so it's easier for us to see.
OK so here you have the Twitter example ready to go.
And as a quick note remember you need Tiger developer API account ready to go and you can do that with
apps that Twitter the com.
So here you mention you can begin running the tweet read that PI file at the very beginning of this
and make sure to add your own IP address and credential keys that local IP address should work just
fine that one to seven point zero points or 0.1.
And if you want.
You could run the tweet read that PI file right now.
It shouldn't really matter either way.
What really matters is that you run it before you actually initiate the spark streaming start sequence.
So we'll leave that for now since we're already up the notebook.
And if you download the notebook you won't find these fine SPARC lines because they're kind of custom
to you.
So what you need to do is if you run into some virtual box using find Sparke run find spark and then
connect it to whatever spark escapes.
So you've probably been doing that the whole course.
If you've been following along for virtual box.
OK.
Now there's four lines that we need to focus on.
And those are the actual import lines so will say from Paice spark import a spark context.
We've seen that before then from Paice part that streaming in a streaming context then from place part
that sequel in a sequel context.
And then finally we're going to import from Paice parked that sequel that functions import DGSE that's
going to allow us to order things in descending order.
All right.
So that's ready to go.
So I will run this and do all the imports.
And then once that cell is ran well we need to do is say S-E is equal to spark contex Now remember you
can only run this once.
If I try to run this more than one time I'll start getting an error.
So I'm going to run the cell and that's going to create the actual spark context then the next thing
is going to run is the cell right here which is the streaming context and the streaming context takes
in the context that it just created.
And then we have the SSD.
And then what I'm going to do is also assign the spark contex that we created and pass that into a sequel
context that's going to allow me to later on just these simple sequel syntax to actually queery the
sequel context that I just created.
Or I should say the spark context.
So run that as well.
Again basically just converting our spark context to a streaming context in a sequel context that we
can access to later.
And then I have the socket stream.
So the socket stream is where I'm actually going to expect to connect to tweet read up PI.
So this line and this line need to match up with whatever is in tweet read that by the defaults and
tweet read that pi.
Whereas this IP and this particular port number we just change the port number to 9 9 9 8.
So we'll run that as well.
So that's going to connect to that socket and then what we're going to do is just like we did in the
previous simpler example have lines be a socket stream window.
So we're taking them and then all we're going to do is the following We are going to say from collections
import a named tuple and a name tuple is almost like a really quick way to create a class.
Essentially what it is it's a tuple where each element actually is assigned a name.
So it has fields.
And in this case the fields are going to be the tag and the count.
So our main idea is to do a count of the actual hash tags in the tweets.
So for every window that we get we're going to take a hash tag of the tweets themselves.
So we're going to now run this and now we essentially have almost What's like a class sort of twee object
that ends up creating an named tuple with the tweet itself and then the fields.
So we're going to expand this a little bit to see the next line.
Now expanded the next cell a little bit so we can get an idea of what's going on and hopefully a lot
of this will look familiar to you based off our simpler word count example.
OK.
So the very first step is we grab the line.
That's the actual string.
That's one long tweet and we're going to split it on whitespace to actually get a list of all the words
in the tweet.
Then what we're going to do is use that filter and that filter is going to filter out things based on
the condition.
So what we do is for every word in that now list we are going to lowercase it and check if it starts
a hash tag because sensu want to do just count the actual hash tags.
So we'll say word that lower and then the dot starts with is basically just a method you can call off
of any Python string to check if it starts with a particular set of characters.
So then we have that where we ended up doing is we took our single tweet string made it into a list
of all the words including the hash tags words.
Then we filtered it.
So now we have a list of only the hash tag words and then what we're going to do is lowercase that word
and then add a one here with a tuple.
So a lower case cases that word sets it up in a tuple just like we did when we did the simple work count
simply here we're just making sure that it's lowercase and then we're going to do is reduce by key to
actually get a word count here of the hash tags.
Once we've done that well we're going to do is store that into a tweet object to work with later and
remember the object is just named tuple with the tag and the count.
And the reason for that is so we can plot it later on then what we do is for each R D D where we use
the r d d to d f that stores as a data frame which then allows us to sort in descending order by count.
And the reason we do that is because we want to say limit 10 so grab the first 10 that show up and register
that as a temporary table called tweets.
So what that means is every 10 tweets that we read in we're going to create the state of frame which
has a hash tag count and that data frame is going to be registered as a temporary table called tweets
later on we're actually planning this will have a plot that kind of refreshes every 10 seconds to show
the latest top 10 tweets with the hashtags et cetera.
So we're going to run this and then it's now time to run tweet read that pie.
So as I previously mentioned you could have already been running tweet read that pie.
That's not a big deal but you have to make sure you run tweet read that pie before you run this next
cell which actually says the spark streaming contex is ready to start.
So we'll hop over back toward Terminal 3.
Tweet read up-I enter and it says it's listening on port 9 9 9 8.
Perfect so it's ready to go.
And now we're going to do say s c start.
Run that cell and then go ahead and jump back to your terminal.
And you should see tweets starting to roll in based off the hash tag we have.
So here we can see we have play guitar hero 2 on medium etc..
I love old soft rock whatever.
So anything that has guitar in it that's what I'm looking for.
So you want to wait a little bit until you get at least 10 tweets in if you chose a really esoteric
topic you may want to choose something that is definitely in to have a lot of tweets to it.
All right.
So it looks like I have 10 tweets in ready to go.
So hop back over to the Jupiter notebook.
So now in my Jupiter note book I'm going to run this next cell.
And what this next cell does is it does all the imports I need to actually display that plotting mechanism.
So I'll say import time.
And that is basically a counter that I Python import display and that allows me to actually show stuff
in the notebook itself that live in Seaborn.
Those are the visualization libraries that we worked with earlier and then for Jupiter notebooks if
you want to see something a plot that is inside the cell.
You have to have this little magic man map Portland in line.
That's only for Jupiter notebooks however so keep that in mind.
OK.
So we'll run those imports let those roll and then this very next thing.
This is what's actually going to be doing the plotting.
So what this does is it sets count equal to zero.
And it says well count is less than 10.
So it's only going to do this around 10 times.
It's going to sleep for three seconds and then it's going to grab the sequel context that we created
much earlier and then call a sequel off of it.
And what it's going to do is say select the tag and count columns.
Remember that was that needed to be recreated from tweets which if you remember that was that actual
temporary table that we registered.
Then what we're going to do is say take the top 10 tweets and turn them into what's known as a Pandurs
data frame.
So that's a data frame library that's meant for smaller data sets like this one that we've already taken
the top 10 and it's ready to go all the big data stuff the actual counting the reducing by key that
was handled by Sparke But now that we actually have a count of those top ten tweets it's usable for
something like Pandurs and I have other courses on those topics.
You can just message me if you're interested in them.
OK then we're going to do say display that clear output way equals true.
So that is going to do that's going to clear the output in case we really have a plot that way we can
keep refreshing our plot then S and estop BLT that figure that just sets the figure size large enough
so we can see it and then we're essentially going to show a bar plot where the x axis is the counts.
So the actual count of tweets to had that particular hash tag with it.
And then the wife was tag and then data is equal to that top 10 día.
Then we'll show the plot and we'll say count as equal to count plus 1.
So let's run this and see if it works.
And here it is.
So we can see here that the top hashtags are guitar deals.
Field sessions best seller and like and it's showing the mean count and about every three seconds.
It's going to keep adding onto this and keep refreshing.
So you can see here that we kind of almost have a live dashboard of tweets having to do with guitars.
Now you can choose any of those keywords you wanted guitars.
Probably one that's not super interesting because it's just pretty basic stuff.
You'll see things like music piano jazz guitar rock etc. but I hope that you found this exercise pretty
interesting in the fact that now you can do live streaming for extremely large streaming data sets.
Now keep in mind for general purposes if you're going to do your own personal project of Twitter using
Sparke streaming for it might be total overkill.
As I mentioned before that tweet PI library already has its own streaming capabilities so you might
want to explore the documentation there.
This sort of sparks streaming is if when you need kind of to take the entire firehose that's available
for you as a consumer for Twitter and you can actually pay Twitter more.
You can actually pay the money that is if you want more data from them.
So keep in mind using spark streaming like this for a personal project would probably be overkill unless
you're working for a huge huge dataset for streaming purposes.
OK.
So once you're ready to kind of stop this what you can do is scroll down here and just say see that
stop and that will stop your sparks streaming context.
So I'll run that and eventually over in your terminal you should see coming back up here.
That this is now broken so we see broken pipe.
It's no longer running.
OK.
So then if you want this to definitely stop you can just do Control-C and it will stop actually reading
everything in the terminal and that's it.
That was your final project.
I hope you enjoyed it.
Again I really just going along with the notebook that we provided for you.
It's super easy to make a typo or mistake to make this not work.
If you have any questions feel free to post them to the CUNY forums.
Thanks everyone and I hope you enjoyed the course.